All right.
So how can we improve on the tests from the previous lesson?
Well, what I really don't like about the fine component method is that we're once again coupling ourselves
to our implementation.
Our test right here for the main nav component depends on another component existing that is specifically
called action button.
So if we were to change the name of the action button component tomorrow to something else like Fancy
Button, if we were just to change the name, not the implementation, the code for the main nav test
would break because it would no longer be able to find that component.
So it's highly dependent or highly coupled on a specific name existing in the NAV and the name that's
possible to change.
Right.
So is there a way we can improve this test to make it less brittle and more adaptable to change?
Well, we can follow the exact same strategy we did earlier where we can attach an attribute to whatever
it is that we're looking for in our tests.
Now, previously, we attached the data test attribute to an HTML element, and we talked about the
idea that that attribute was totally arbitrary.
Our name for it was totally arbitrary, but it was an attribute that existed purely for our tests,
and thus we can drag that attribute around to any other HTML element and a test would continue to pass.
What's the exact same idea here?
Because we can apply arbitrary attributes to our view components as well.
So let's see that in action right here.
I'm going to change our test.
I'm going to change this from a fine component method call to a find method call.
And right here I'm going to provide a string argument and we want to search for an attribute as a reminder.
The way we do that, using this view test util syntax is to provide a pair of square brackets, then
specify the attribute that we want to look for.
In that case, the attribute is called data test.
Then we provide an equal sign and then the value that we're looking for for that data test attribute.
So not just looking for an attribute, but for an attribute with a specific value.
And since that value is going to be a string and we need to provide that string within this other string
in our test, we have to use single quotes here.
So I'm going to put a pair of single quotes and here we can choose an arbitrary name for our login button.
And I'm just going to say log in, dash button.
All right.
This again, does not exist in our implementation yet.
It's just something that I expect to exist.
But notice now it doesn't care about whether it's looking for a HTML element or a view component.
All it cares about is something in my main NAV template that has this actually called data test equal
to log in button.
Right.
Specifically for the purposes of testing.
And I'm going to follow the exact same logic for the profile image below.
So instead of using fine component, I'm again going to use the find method.
I'm going to provide my string with the square brackets, provide my data test attribute, just keeping
a consistent name just because, you know, why would we choose a different one for each element or
view component that we attach to?
It makes sense to have a consistent naming scheme here.
So I'm going to call the attribute down test as well, but I'm going to provide a different value,
which is profile, dash image.
All right.
So let me go ahead and run this test.
They're going to do NPM.
Run, test.
Watch here.
That's going to start up my test runner ingest and we'll see whether the test passes or fails.
And of course, it fails because if we scroll up here, it's unable to find the login button.
And the reason it's unable to find the log in button is because it's unable to find anything in our
template with this data test after all.
Right.
So what can we do to fix this problem?
Well, we have to scroll back up here to where we're rendering the profile image component.
And here's where I'm going to attach my data test attribute.
So the key takeaway or lesson to be learned here is that we can apply these arbitrary attributes not
just to HTML elements, but to our view components as well.
So right here, data test.
Equals.
And this is going to be my profile dash image.
And right here, even though this is a VLS and is conditionally being rendered only if the profile image
is not being rendered, we can still attach a data test attribute here.
So data test at the very end equals log in dash button.
Let me go ahead and run this again after I make those changes and now everything is going to pass.
All right.
So let's go ahead and make the same changes to our other test below.
In fact, I can probably copy the code from above, so I'm going to copy this log in button code right
here and replace this code below where we're using the fine component method.
Same idea.
We still want to search for something in our, in our template that has an attribute of data test equal
to log in button.
Same rules apply for the profile image.
So I'm going to copy this line and replace this line over here.
And now when I rerun it, our test should still pass because this test is simply testing for the inverse
of the test above.
This test is testing for the fact that when the data property has a is logged in value of true, then
we should see the profile image and not see the log in button.
All right.
So this moves us in a better direction and this is definitely a better test, in my opinion.
But there's still one detail that I don't like, which is that we are manually setting up the data of
our view component right here.
All right.
It does make the test perhaps easier to read and understand because the reader understands which property
is affecting the result.
However, it's a sign, again, that we are coupled to our implementation.
Our tests specifically know that there is a data property on the main nav component called is logged
in and what its value needs to be in order to see something on the screen.
Right.
We wouldn't be able to write a TDD test with this kind of implementation specific detail if we started
of course, with TDD.
Right.
So that's another sign that is very closely coupled to exactly the way that we've built the component.
So we have to ask ourselves, what is the real value of this test to the user?
Well, the real purpose of the main component, or at least this chunk of it, is kind of obvious.
It's to display something different when the user logs in and how does the user log in, they click
a button.
Right.
That's the core component that's missing here.
We want to render the component.
We want to check what exists.
Then we want to simulate a button press right.
Just how the user would interact with our component.
Ah user is not going to change a data property honor view component.
The user is technically oblivious to our implementation.
What is the user going to do?
They're going to click our action button and then they're going to expect to see a profile image.
So the closer that our components can mirror that real life usage, our component, the better.
And that is also testing the behavior that irrespective of, you know, a specific implementation,
the user clicks a login button and they see a profile image.
But unfortunately, we don't yet know how to simulate the idea of a click and how to actually make a
click action on our component.
So before we fix this test, we have to learn that, and that's what we're going to tackle in the very
next lesson.
But then we're going to come back to this test and fix it to make it a little bit more not non knowing
of the implementation.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.